---
layout: ../../layouts/Blog.astro
poster: "/images/diary.jpg"
title: "Learning Diary 2023-07-22"
subtitle: "What I have learned today!"
---

## Node.js
### What loading balancing is?
- Basically the **loading balancing** is a way of distributing and dividing a set of **task** to a set of **resources**.
- When it comes to **scaling up**, instead of replacing to a larger CUP (which is called **vertical scaling**), load balancing helps us apply the **horizontal scaling**.
    - Horizontal scaling means we scale our application by adding more server to handle more requests.
- There are two main approaches for loading balancing:
    - **Round-Robin**: pairs the first request to the first server, the second one to the second sever ...etc.
    - **Randomized static**: distributes a request to a random server.

### How Node.js handles loading balancing?
- Node.js provides a module called `cluster` to handle it.
    - `culster.fork()` can create a **worker**, a worker is a process that runs exactly the same code in `server.js` file. We can imagine a worker is a copy of **master**(`server.js`).
        - A worker do the actual works, like: responding a request.
        - The master is only responsible for coordinating the creation of works.
    - `culster.isMaster` can help us determine who runs the actual codes in `sever.js`.
- In the real word, we want to use our CPU in a most effective way. Which means that we want to create workers as many as possible. 
    - So here comes to `os` module.
    - With `os.cpus().length`, we can check how many workers we can create.

```ts
const NUM_WORKERS = os.cpus().length;

for (let i = 0; i < NUM_WORKERS; i++) {
    cluster.fork();
}
```

## Astro
- How to fetch multiple files by using `Astro.glob`
- How to deploy automatically the static files by connecting the repo on Github and Netfily